In this lecture we are going to talk about how to fetch data from Yahoo Finance.
So you may pose the question that where they find you these financial related data for example was the
price of apples.
What's the price of IBM stock and so on.
You can look it up on Yahoo Finance.
So for example if we search for the Apple stock price as you can see there's a summary for Apple's stock.
In this case the price of Apple's stock is approximately $160.
If you click on historical data this is what we are going to download.
As you can see you can download the data and we could import it with the help of Python but we are able
to download it directly from Yahoo Finance and of course there are several paramita such as the open
price high priced low price closing price and adjusted closing price.
And of course the volume we are going to deal with adjusted closing price.
So you may pose the question What is this adjusted closing price adjusted closing price.
Has something to do with closing price.
But it takes into account factors such as dividends stock later and so on.
So that's why I adjusted close price is a more accurate reflection of the stock's value.
And usually quantitative analysts using adjusted closing price instead of the standard closing price.
So that's why we are going to use adjusted closing price as well.
Okay.
So downloading the data from Yahoo Finance it's quite easy.
You just have to import that Pandurs they iterator data.
We are going to use it as the web and we just have to call the data reader.
We have to define the given stock.
In this case it is the Apple store the data source is the Yahoo.
Because we would like the fact that data from Yahoo Finance.
We have to define a start date and end date and we are going to deal with adjusted closing price down
we are going to calculate that daily returns.
Basically the daily return is the stock price today minus the stock price yesterday.
Divide by the stock price yesterday.
OK we can move typified by a hundred.
If we are after a percentage sometimes we use the logarithm of the daily returns instead of the actual
price is because of normalization.
Now we are going to talk about a standard daily returns.
OK so we just have to calculate the daily return as the data and the data that shift to 1 minus 1 this
is how we can calculate it.
Okay.
Then we are able to create a histogram in order to check whether the daily returns have some distribution
or not.
And if we run despite unswept.
So the fact that the normal the assumption is that the daily returns have normal distribution.
And as you can see it is very very similar to a normal distribution.
Okay we are not interested in quantitative finance we are going to do Mesrine learning approaches.
But most of the financial related models assume that the distribution of daily returns is approximately
a normal distribution as you can see it is approximately normal.
It doesn't matter what's important in our Spack that we can download the data from Yahoo Finance.
With this line of code.
So it is quite easy and quite convenient.
This is what we are going to use in the coming lectures.
Thanks for watching.